Title: Probiotic-driven improvement of GI motility in functional constipation: discovering the diagnostic and therapeutic potential of the abfA gene cluster in probiotic gut microbiota
Speaker: Shi HUANG
Abstract: Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs), also known as ectopic lymphoid structures, are organized lymphoid-like aggregates that can form within the tumor microenvironment. TLSs exhibit similar structural and functional characteristics to secondary lymphoid organs, such as lymph nodes, and are associated with improved cancer prognosis and enhanced immune responses, including immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapies. However, inducing mature TLSs remains a significant challenge.  This project aims to develop a dynamic hydrogel drug delivery system that stimulates the formation and maturation of TLSs. Our first goal is to develop a cytokine-loaded dynamic hydrogel for inducing TLSs. We have synthesized a hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogel crosslinked by host-guest interactions between cucurbit[8]uril (CB[8]) and 4-(4-chlorophenyl)pyridine (CPP), namely HA-CPP⸦CB[8]. Our preliminary results demonstrate that a single injection of the HA-CPP⸦CB[8] hydrogel containing cytokines intraperitoneally effectively increased TLS density, promoted TLS maturation, suppressed tumor growth, and prolonged survival. Furthermore, combining this hydrogel-based drug formulation with anti-PD1 ICB therapy results in enhanced tumor suppression, improved survival rates, and strengthened TLS formation and maturation.   However, TLSs formation in some solid tumor locations like subcutaneous areas is significantly suppressed compared to that in intraperitoneal areas. To further enhance the TLS-inducing effects, our second goal is to develop an mRNA-loaded dynamic hydrogel drug delivery system leveraging the adaptability, high translational efficiency, and more durable bioactivity of mRNA therapies. Finally, we will synthesize a variety of guest molecules with a wide range of binding affinities with CB[8] to tune the hydrogel network dynamics. We hypothesize that the hydrogel dynamics will influence the drug-releasing profiles and the immune cell infiltrations, ultimately affecting the TLS formation process. This approach enables us to tailor the hydrogel dynamics for optimal TLS induction in various tumor microenvironments.
